---
file_format: mystnb
---

```{post} 2023-11-17

```

# [PyTensor](https://github.com/pymc-devs/pytensor) Chat

Ricardo Vieira reached out asking to see if we could chat about egglog and to explore if it could be used inside
of PyTensor for rewriting.

We set up a call and he aggreed to record it, so that we could share anything we talked about with others:

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]
from IPython.display import YouTubeVideo

YouTubeVideo("8rb841pBhf0")
```

It was great to get some feedback on the Python bindings and see where the rough patches are. So thank you Ricardo for
being game to explore this together!

Some of the main takeaways for me where:

- Having generic user defined sorts in egglog would be very useful, so that every library like PyTensor doesn't
  have to reimplement collection types for every sort. If we had them, we could say implement a `egglog.std.Tuple`
  class that would work like a tuple, and if you had a user defined `Int` class, you could do `Tuple[Int]`.
- It was interested to see how Ricardo started implementing the Op types at the end, as custom classes, and translating
  the pure functions to them. It's a nice example of how you can write multiple interfaces, depending on the user,
  and right rewrites in whichever you are more comfortable with, as long as you can convert to/from them.

Some further things we could explore in the future are:

- implementing loop nesting in egglog
- converting between the existing PyTensor types and egglog types, in a programatic way, so that we could play with rewrites
  without having to rewrite their whole project.

If anyone else who works on a Python library thinks they could benefit from egglog, or have other questions, feel free
to reach out!
